Hi there, welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about the attacker's
perspective in
cybersecurity. Let's
dive in. The goal of
the presentation is
to emphasise the
existing risks posed
by some unfriendly
actors, called
attackers, in
cyberspace. In the
video, firstly, we
will discuss what the
attacker is. Then, we
will distinguish the
common types of
attackers and examine
their motivations for
engaging in malicious
activity.
According to the
dictionary, the
adversary is someone
who opposes or
resists. It is an
enemy or an opponent.
A more specific term,
attacker, identifies
someone who carries
out harmful actions.
In the cybersecurity
field, an attacker is
an individual or
entity that causes
problems for regular
users and companies
to perform tasks and
duties in the digital
space. The attacker
can be a person,
group or organisation
that conducts
malicious activities
against digital
resources. Typically,
we refer to such a
person as an attacker
due to their
aggressive or active
pose. Cybersecurity
professionals
distinguish various
types of attackers
and link them to
specific motivations.
Today, we will learn
about some of the
most common types you
could meet or hear
about when doing your
daily activities.
Insiders, hacktivists
, script kiddies,
nation-state actors
and cybercriminals.
Let us start with
insiders. An insider
is someone who knows
information available
within a group, due
to being part of that
group. We are all
insiders of various
groups. Typically, it
is a regular thing.
However, in
cybersecurity, the
concept of an insider
threat refers to an
insider who not only
possesses knowledge,
but also utilises it
in a manner that
leads to negative
consequences for the
group or specific
individuals. For
example, let us
assume that you share
your password for the
gaming platform with
your best friend. The
friend wants to
impress some older
school children and
gives them your
password. These older
children access your
account and take
control of it. Your
friend is an insider,
but the actions led
to some negative
consequences from
your perspective.
That is why we should
all be careful when
sharing personal data
. Another type of
attacker is
hacktivists. The
concept of a
hacktivist is
constructed from two
words, hacker and
activist. A hacker is
a person who knows a
lot about computers
and computer systems.
This person utilises
their knowledge and
skills to gain access
to systems to steal
the data or disturb
those systems. It is
a cyber hooligan. An
activist is a person
who stands up for a
cause they believe in
. A hacktivist uses
their hacking skills
to send a message,
usually about
something they
perceive as unfair in
the world. For
example, a hacktivist
who loves nature
could disrupt the
website of a company
that cuts down trees
in the forest and
sells timber. Script
kiddies make another
type of adversary
actor. Script kiddies
possess some skills
and knowledge that
enable them to break
into or disturb
computer systems.
However, they lack
the necessary
knowledge and skills
to comprehend the
implications of their
actions. Typically,
script kiddies are
eager to discover
software and run or
test it, sometimes to
show off. For example
, your friend could
use specialized
software to run at
school and
potentially disrupt
the entire school
network by specifying
program parameters
during execution. If
your friend has no
idea how everything
is developed and why
the software behaves
in a certain way, it
means we have some
script kiddies around
. Cybercriminals are
adversary actors or
attackers with larger
goals than just
disrupting the
school's computer
network or public
services.
Cybercriminals are
highly ambitious and
seek financial or
reputational gain. Do
you have a
supermarket around
where you go from
time to time? The
targets of
cybercriminals could
target payment
systems, cash
registers, and some
specialized logistics
systems.
Cybercriminals could
attempt to steal data
about the credit
cards used in these
systems. In the news,
you might have heard
about state-sponsored
actors. It is not a
secret that among
more than 200
countries globally,
there are alliances
and opposing parties.
Among the alliances,
there are
competitions in
innovations and
disagreements over
values. Thus, states
sponsor some hacker
groups to sabotage
events or to engage
in espionage, aiming
to get data or
specific knowledge
related to secret
information. Now you
know several types of
adversaries and their
motivation to perform
adversarial actions.
Could you think of
one sentence to
describe each of the
adversary actors
listed in the slide?
Let us take half a
minute to think.
Was it enough time to
find the proper words
in trying to
distinguish all types
? One more thing to
mention. When your
computer freezes or
your phone stops
working, it does not
mean that you have
been attacked. To
attribute the
incident to a
particular adversary,
an investigation is
needed.
Thank you for
watching!